it's like if you're one of those crazy
rock climber dudes like Alex Honnold
yeah and he's crazy he's crazy I love
him he's told have you talked if you met
him yeah I've had him on a couple times
oh my god he's awesome
furious you know of course is amygdalas
fucked up you know this right he has no
fear no he does have fear you're wrong
oh really
absolutely as fear he just understands
his capacity and his ability you think
his rash he says I can do this therefore
I should not be afraid because I read
that he takes his brain and that his his
fear centers are different than the rest
of us is what I read maybe that's wrong
I don't know did he tell you didn't say
anything about that no I mean I don't
know about that he said basically that
the experience he just stays mellow and
calm and then if things go wrong it's
really bad like like you don't want to
be freaking out yes like it's like
divers yeah you don't panic when you're
underwater and Brian lose your way right
there was a consumes oxygen a lot
amazing story that my friend Donald
Cerrone he's a UFC fighter told about
being trapped in a cave and and and
watering out when it was running out of
oxygen yeah
horrible crazy scary story and you have
to those guys are all so different
either they either they're born that way
or they learn to be that way you have to
keep calm because when you and I lose
our cool and start hyperventilating yeah
our oxygen consumption skyrockets right
and that's the opposite of what you need
to do in that situation it's actually
what he talked about yeah you know like
trying to stay calm and battling the
demons yeah I'm not gonna die like this
yes yeah what an incredible story hmm
yeah the Alex Honnold thing I hear is
something yeah I watched the movie it's
awesome he got an MRI and they said that
it's a yeah his amygdala is different
but what did it say how to say it the
kids amygdala isn't firing yes okay but
isn't that possible that that's just
through development of constant source
of stable calm while you're in
life-threatening situations it's
possible I would like to see fighter's
brains measured in that regard I would
like to see soldiers
well Special Forces guys yes I think
that's right and the guy's a special
force guys it's like the capacity to
shoot back when you're being shot at
give me your calm yes moving positions
you know yeah and so forth those are all
very important abilities not panicking
but and it is also the case that some
people for example the most famous study
in this regard was a study of London
taxi drivers London taxi drivers can go
from any point in the city to any other
point in the city it's called the
knowledge they have a mental map of the
whole city and it's freakish it takes
years to be able to know how to navigate
the city with they there are thousands
of nay tens of thousands of street names
and they can do it by like dead
reckoning they scan this was a paper
about ten years ago they brain scan
these guys and they had I forgot which
region of the brain but they had through
learning it has felt modify that region
of their brain mmm so it's possible
Holland is like you say that he learned
to be this way that his amygdala isn't
firing because he trained himself but I
Honnold Honnold Honnold I'm sorry
Honnold is this way because he learned
his way but it's more likely I think
that he's like Usain Bolt that was born
with incredibly high preponderance of
fast-twitch fibers in his legs so he can
run like a wind and he trains as well
you have both right good athletes
require both innate ability plus
training yes and I think Honnold is
probably like that he's probably born
with an amygdala doesn't fire so much
and he's an amazing you know climber
it's purely speculative right like the
and also the nature versus nurture would
apply to chess players as well I would
like to see their brain scan like yeah
well a Gary Kasparov I know Gary yes I
would love to scan yes yeah he's an
interesting to hit what I'll say the
article goes way more into depth than I
who I just showed you about just that
sentence she's the doctor who studied
her it was specifically looks at people
that go in there high stress and look
for those kinds of things she's been
doing that since 2005 I guess and she
goes it's its pages long this whole
thing about his brain but it is unusual
but it also the amount of time think
about people that are in high stress
high stress is one thing this kid is in
a life-threatening absolute fatality
sudeikis death every day I know all day
I know I mean he lives in a van and just
climbs yes that's what he does it's
really fascinating yes it is it is and
it's amazing honestly is amazing so I
mean I don't know I'd never met him I
admire
him very much and I love this like we
said at the beginning it's very
important to have skills